doc/Concurrency Analysis.md, before:

**Concurrency Analysis**

This document details the threading model and message passing architecture of the Ropy application.

# Thread Model

The application primarily uses GPUI's async executors for event handling and background processing, minimizing the use of dedicated OS threads.

| Entity                 | Executor   | Responsibility                                    |
| :--------------------- | :--------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
| **Main App**           | Foreground | Runs the GPUI event loop, handles UI rendering.   |
| **Hotkey Listener**    | Foreground | Polls global hotkey events.                       |
| **Tray Handler**       | Foreground | Polls system tray menu events.                    |
| **Clipboard Watcher**  | Background | Runs `clipboard-rs` watcher (blocking operation). |
| **Image Processor**    | Background | Processes and saves images from clipboard.        |
| **Clipboard Listener** | Background | Receives clipboard events and updates repository. |
| **Clipboard Writer**   | Background | Handles requests to write to system clipboard.    |

> **Note**: Most "background" operations are implemented as async tasks running on the GPUI Background Executor (a thread pool), rather than spawning new OS threads for each component.

# Message Passing

The application relies on channels (`async_channel`) for communication between tasks.

## 1. Clipboard Monitoring Flow

- **Source**: `Clipboard Watcher` task detects a change.
- **Path 1 (Text)**: Sends `ClipboardEvent::Text` via `clipboard_tx` (async_channel) to the **Clipboard Listener Task**.
- **Path 2 (Image)**:
  1. Sends `DynamicImage` via `image_tx` (async_channel) to the **Image Processor Task**.
  2. **Image Processor Task** saves the image and sends `ClipboardEvent::Image` via `clipboard_tx` to the **Clipboard Listener Task**.
- **Handling**: The **Clipboard Listener Task** receives `ClipboardEvent`, updates the `Repository`, and updates the `SharedRecords`.

## 2. Hotkey Flow

- **Source**: `GlobalHotKeyEvent` receiver.
- **Mechanism**: A task on the **Foreground Executor** (Main Thread) polls the receiver.
- **Handling**: When a hotkey is detected, the task directly dispatches an `Active` action to the window via `async_app.update`.

## 3. Tray Flow

- **Source**: `TrayIcon` menu events.
- **Path**: `tray_icon::menu::MenuEvent::receiver()`.
- **Mechanism**: A task on the **Foreground Executor** (Main Thread) polls the receiver.
- **Handling**: The **Tray Handler Task** either shows the window or quits the app based on the event ID.

## 4. Copy/Paste Flow

- **Source**: User interaction in **Main App** (UI).
- **Path**: Sends `CopyRequest` via `copy_tx` (async_channel) to the **Clipboard Writer Task**.
- **Handling**: **Clipboard Writer Task** writes the content to the system clipboard.

# Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "GPUI Runtime (Main Thread / Foreground)"
        Main[Main App / UI]
        HL[Hotkey Listener Task]
        TH[Tray Handler Task]
    end

    subgraph "GPUI Runtime (Background Pool)"
        CW[Clipboard Watcher Task]
        IP[Image Processor Task]
        CL[Clipboard Listener Task]
        CWr[Clipboard Writer Task]
    end

    subgraph "Data"
        Repo[Repository]
        Shared[Shared Records]
    end

    %% Clipboard Monitoring
    CW -- "Text Event" --> CL
    CW -- "DynamicImage" --> IP
    IP -- "Image Event" --> CL
    CL -- "Save/Update" --> Repo
    CL -- "Update" --> Shared

    %% User Input
    HL -- "Dispatch Action" --> Main
    TH -- "Update/Quit" --> Main

    %% Clipboard Writing
    Main -- "CopyRequest" --> CWr
    CWr -- "Write" --> SystemClipboard((System Clipboard))
    CW -. "Watch" .-> SystemClipboard
```

# Detailed Data Flow

## Clipboard Event Processing

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Sys as System Clipboard
    participant CW as Clipboard Watcher
    participant IP as Image Processor (Task)
    participant CL as Clipboard Listener (Task)
    participant Repo as Repository
    participant Shared as Shared Records

    Sys->>CW: Content Changed
    alt is Text
        CW->>CL: ClipboardEvent::Text
    else is Image
        CW->>IP: DynamicImage
        IP->>IP: Save to Disk
        IP->>CL: ClipboardEvent::Image(Path)
    end

    activate CL
    CL->>Repo: Save Record
    Repo-->>CL: Record
    CL->>Shared: Update In-Memory List
    deactivate CL
```

Commit message:

doc: update doc of clipboard listener to notify UI for refresh after record update

doc/Concurrency Analysis.md, after:

**Concurrency Analysis**

This document details the threading model and message passing architecture of the Ropy application.

# Thread Model

The application primarily uses GPUI's async executors for event handling and background processing, minimizing the use of dedicated OS threads.

| Entity                 | Executor   | Responsibility                                    |
| :--------------------- | :--------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
| **Main App**           | Foreground | Runs the GPUI event loop, handles UI rendering.   |
| **Hotkey Listener**    | Foreground | Polls global hotkey events.                       |
| **Tray Handler**       | Foreground | Polls system tray menu events.                    |
| **Clipboard Watcher**  | Background | Runs `clipboard-rs` watcher (blocking operation). |
| **Image Processor**    | Background | Processes and saves images from clipboard.        |
| **Clipboard Listener** | Background | Receives clipboard events and updates repository. |
| **Clipboard Writer**   | Background | Handles requests to write to system clipboard.    |

> **Note**: Most "background" operations are implemented as async tasks running on the GPUI Background Executor (a thread pool), rather than spawning new OS threads for each component.

# Message Passing

The application relies on channels (`async_channel`) for communication between tasks.

## 1. Clipboard Monitoring Flow

- **Source**: `Clipboard Watcher` task detects a change.
- **Path 1 (Text)**: Sends `ClipboardEvent::Text` via `clipboard_tx` (async_channel) to the **Clipboard Listener Task**.
- **Path 2 (Image)**:
  1. Sends `DynamicImage` via `image_tx` (async_channel) to the **Image Processor Task**.
  2. **Image Processor Task** saves the image and sends `ClipboardEvent::Image` via `clipboard_tx` to the **Clipboard Listener Task**.
- **Handling**: The **Clipboard Listener Task** receives `ClipboardEvent`, updates the `Repository`, and updates the `SharedRecords`.
- **UI Notification**: After updating the records, the **Clipboard Listener Task** sends a signal through a notification channel to a foreground task, which then calls `cx.notify()` on the `WindowHandle` to refresh the UI.

## 2. Hotkey Flow

- **Source**: `GlobalHotKeyEvent` receiver.
- **Mechanism**: A task on the **Foreground Executor** (Main Thread) polls the receiver.
- **Handling**: When a hotkey is detected, the task directly dispatches an `Active` action to the window via `async_app.update`.

## 3. Tray Flow

- **Source**: `TrayIcon` menu events.
- **Path**: `tray_icon::menu::MenuEvent::receiver()`.
- **Mechanism**: A task on the **Foreground Executor** (Main Thread) polls the receiver.
- **Handling**: The **Tray Handler Task** either shows the window or quits the app based on the event ID.

## 4. Copy/Paste Flow

- **Source**: User interaction in **Main App** (UI).
- **Path**: Sends `CopyRequest` via `copy_tx` (async_channel) to the **Clipboard Writer Task**.
- **Handling**: **Clipboard Writer Task** writes the content to the system clipboard.

# Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "GPUI Runtime (Main Thread / Foreground)"
        Main[Main App / UI]
        HL[Hotkey Listener Task]
        TH[Tray Handler Task]
    end

    subgraph "GPUI Runtime (Background Pool)"
        CW[Clipboard Watcher Task]
        IP[Image Processor Task]
        CL[Clipboard Listener Task]
        CWr[Clipboard Writer Task]
    end

    subgraph "Data"
        Repo[Repository]
        Shared[Shared Records]
    end

    %% Clipboard Monitoring
    CW -- "Text Event" --> CL
    CW -- "DynamicImage" --> IP
    IP -- "Image Event" --> CL
    CL -- "Save/Update" --> Repo
    CL -- "Update" --> Shared
    CL -- "Notify (via Channel)" --> Main

    %% User Input
    HL -- "Dispatch Action" --> Main
    TH -- "Update/Quit" --> Main

    %% Clipboard Writing
    Main -- "CopyRequest" --> CWr
    CWr -- "Write" --> SystemClipboard((System Clipboard))
    CW -. "Watch" .-> SystemClipboard
```

# Detailed Data Flow

## Clipboard Event Processing

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Sys as System Clipboard
    participant CW as Clipboard Watcher
    participant IP as Image Processor (Task)
    participant CL as Clipboard Listener (Task)
    participant Repo as Repository
    participant Shared as Shared Records
    participant Main as Main App (UI)

    Sys->>CW: Content Changed
    alt is Text
        CW->>CL: ClipboardEvent::Text
    else is Image
        CW->>IP: DynamicImage
        IP->>IP: Save to Disk
        IP->>CL: ClipboardEvent::Image(Path)
    end

    activate CL
    CL->>Repo: Save Record
    Repo-->>CL: Record
    CL->>Shared: Update In-Memory List
    CL->>Main: Notify UI Update (cx.notify)
    deactivate CL
```
